# Utopos

The system of Utopos is a sad story. It contains a core world, Utopos, but no one wants to go there. The only other planet that was inhabitable is now a radioactive wasteland.

## Utopos
The core planet of Utopos was once great, but it now has far, far to many social services for its citizens to be viable. Living conditions are poor, and its nearly impossible to leave. The government is nearly pure socialism, and there is no private property anywhere on the planet. All land and objects belong to the State, and are leased by the citizens. Everyone, no matter if they are a citizen or a resident, have to do this. Some say this is equal. Others point out its equally bad. The planet barely produces and imports enough food to feed its people, and has few exports, mostly being refined metals, particularly the ones used in small quantities. Due to their dominance of the market, the prices of these metals are high, but its also the only source of income for the planet.

Law on Utopos is awful. There is often martial law, controlled by the local planetary force, and the court system is non-compliant with the Empire's oversights. People often go missing, taken by the various police forces for crimes never disclosed. Any speech against the State is illegal, and a firewall surrounds the interplanetary network's connections to the planet, resulting in a highly filtered, tracked, and censured digital world. Finally, there are cameras everywhere, they say if you have access to them, you can watch every moment of every person's life. Not even homes are safe from this monitoring, multiple individuals visiting the planet have found hidden cameras in homes, hotels, and other residences. 

The Utopos planetary force constantly tries to regulate and tax all ships moving through the system, which has lead to a small garrison of the Avarian Spaceforce being stationed in the system to prevent this, as outside of the planet's orbit is directly under the control of the Empire. All entry to the planet is strictly monitored, and exit must be approved, even for visitors. 

## Greon
Once a lush, green world, Greon was destroyed about a thousand years prior. It had started as a colony of Utopos, but was in the process of gaining its independence. Then, one fateful day, for unknown reasons, a massive cargo ship's Chaos Reactor became unstable and detonated in the lower atmosphere. It should be noted that having an active Chaos Reactor in a planet's atmosphere or within 100 KM of the surface is illegal, Empire-wide, due to the dangers like this. The explosion of this reactor obliterated about one fifth of the surface of Greon, and soon covered the rest with clouds of radioactive dust. The planet was quarantined by the planetary forces of Utopos, the first to arrive, due to hazards of secondary explosions. This has been widely criticized as a mistake, and that many people could have been safely rescued. By the time that things had settled down enough, nearly all 1 billion people on the planet were dead, most from the initial explosion and shockwave (which circled the globe 73 times, the first 3 of which were strong enough to break brick walls), while the rest died from the fallout. Much was then further destroyed in secondary explosions, many of which were intentionally set off by Utopian disaster-recovery teams working to clear out possible hazards. 

By the time an Imperial court ordered Utopos out of there and send the Spaceforce to take over, the damage was done, and there was no evidence of the exact events, besides what was observed before the explosion took place. Two criminal investigations were launched, one about the explosion itself, and the other about how Utopos handled the emergency. The first was inconclusive, the second was battled and challenged in courts for years, before finally being dismissed nearly a generation later, as being irrelevant due to the time that passed. 

The Greon Disaster is a well-remembered day in the Empire, and flags are flown across it at half mast. It marks the largest and deadliest event in the history of the Empire.